\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename braid.info
@set UPDATED 10 December 2010
@set UPDATED-MONTH December 2010
@set EDITION 1.0
@set VERSION 1.0
@settitle BRAID @value{VERSION}

@c Define a new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for BRAID (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).

Copyright @copyright{} 2010, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC
Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
Written by the Components Team @email{components@@llnl.gov}
UCRL-CODE-2002-054
All rights reserved.
@end copying


@titlepage
@title BRAID
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Components Team (@email{components@@llnl.gov})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top BRAID

This manual is for BRAID (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::		General purpose and information.
* Invoking BRAID::	How to run @command{braid}.
* Reporting bugs::	Sending bug reports and feature suggestions.
* Concept index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex overview
BRAID needs to have a man page.

@node Invoking BRAID
@chapter Invoking BRAID

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @command{braid} program is:

@example
braid @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

@command{braid} supports the following options:

@table @option

@item --help
@itemx -h
@opindex --help
@opindex -h
Print an informative help message on standard output and exit
successfully.

@item --version
@itemx -v
@opindex --version
@opindex -v
Print the version number and licensing information of Braid on
standard output and then exit successfully.

@end table

@node Reporting bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

To report bugs or suggest enhancements for Braid, please
send electronic mail to @email{components@@llnl.gov}.

@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
